(notary width 60)



  General

Bank switching - with 16-bit addressing, each adress is 16 bits, which
allows seamless access to 2^16=64kB of memory. To access more than
64kB, the NES uses bank switching. This is used in the cartridges, but
not in the CPU/PPU/any form of internal memory. The cartridge may
contain multiple "banks" of memory (blocks of memory chips,
basically). These are accessed through a special chip called the
memory management controller (MMC). This chip handles bank switching.



  Graphics

Pattern tables describe tiles. Tiles are 8x8 pixel blocks. TODO more
on pattern tables and tiles. Name tables hold tile indices. These
describe where tiles should be placed to form the background. SPR-RAM
holds 64 sprites, each of which has its own specific X and Y values. A
sprite also has a tile index (i.e. some tiles are typically used for
the background, while others are used to be character sprites). Sprite
byte 0 is not Y, but actually Y - 1 (quirk). Drawing the background
and the sprites are separate actions. Color palettes are arrays of
colors. There is an implicit system palette (not stored in memory)
which contains all supported colors, allowing each supported color to
be refered to by its system pallete index. Additionaly, there are
three background palettes and three sprite palettes (stored in
memory), each containing three colors and (due to mirroring) a forth
color which is always the background color (i.e., these are four
indices into the system color palette). 0xF000 is the background
color, mirrored every four bytes (at 0xF004, 0xF008, etc., forming the
aforementioned fourth color of each palette). To recap: tiles make up
sprites and backgrounds, and tiles are just 8x8 matrices of pallete
indices (0-3). Sprites' byte 2 controls which color palettes are used
when drawing sprites, Attribute Tables determine which color palettes
are used when drawing the background, and the values of tiles'
matrices index into these palettes. Therefore, palettes are indexed
using the pattern 43210, where bits 0 and 1 are the pixel value from
tile data (a single tile matrix element), bits 2 and 3 are the palette
number from attribute table or OAM (0-3), and bit 4 is
Background/Sprite select (0 - background palette, 1 - sprite palette)



  How To Render The Screen

TODO



  Possibly Trivia

Serial communication - communication done one bit at a time. Parallel
communication - done multiple bits at a time. There's also serial and
parallel ports. It's intuitive why multiple-bit communication is
called "parallel."
